Summer 2026 SENG 265: Software Development Methods (Units: 1.5)
Territory Acknowledgement
We acknowledge and respect the Lək̓ʷəŋən (Songhees and Xʷsepsəm/Esquimalt) Peoples on whose territory the university stands, and the Lək̓ʷəŋən
and W̱SÁNEĆ Peoples whose historical relationships with the land continue to this day.
Key Dates and Schedules
Section CRN Schedule Location Class Start Class End Days of Weeks* Hours of Day Instructor
A01 30802 Lecture CLE C112 2026-05-06 2026-08-17 TWF 10:30-11:20 Hausi Muller
A01 30802 Lecture ECS 108 2026-05-06 2026-08-17 TWF 10:30-11:20 Hausi Muller
A02 30803 Lecture CLE C112 2026-05-06 2026-08-17 TWF 10:30-11:20 Hausi Muller
A02 30803 Lecture ECS 108 2026-05-06 2026-08-17 TWF 10:30-11:20 Hausi Muller
B02 30805 Lab ELW B238 2026-05-06 2026-08-17 R 14:30-15:50
*M=Monday, T=Tuesday, W=Wednesday, R=Thursday, F=Friday.
Withdrawal without reduction of tuition fees: 2026-05-18
Withdrawal with 50% reduction of tuition fees: 2026-06-07
Last day for withdrawal (no fees returned): 2026-07-01
Instructor(s), Contact Information, and Office Hours
Name: Hausi Muller
Office: ECS 614
Phone: 250-472-5719
Email: hausi@uvic.ca
Office Hours:
Tue, 11:45 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Wed, 11:45 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Accessible Learning
The University of Victoria is committed to creating a learning experience that is as accessible as possible. If you are registered with the Centre for
Accessible Learning and anticipate or experience any barriers to learning in this course, please feel welcome to discuss your concerns with me. If
you are a student with a disability or chronic health condition, you can meet with a CAL advisor to discuss access and accommodations.
How to contact CAL: https://www.uvic.ca/accessible-learning/students/how-to-register/index.php.
Academic Concessions
The university recognizes its responsibility to offer academic concessions to students whose ability to complete course requirements is interrupted
by unexpected and unavoidable circumstances or conflicting responsibilities.
Review the Academic Concession Regulation:
https://www.uvic.ca/calendar/future/undergrad/index.php#/policy/HJjAxiGO4?bc=true&bcCurrent=11%20-
%20Academic%20Concessions&bcGroup=Undergraduate%20Academic%20Regulations&bcItemType=policies
and web site:
https://www.uvic.ca/students/academics/academic-concessions-accommodations/request-for-academic-concession/index.php#ipn-undergraduaterequests-
for-academic-concession.
Course Overview
Software engineering is a disciplined approach to software development grounded in a core set of concepts, techniques, and tools. Software
engineers must learn and practice these fundamentals, especially when collaborating with others on software projects. This course provides a
foundation in software engineering for higher-level courses and co-op positions, including an introduction to the effective and responsible use of
generative AI and agentic AI in software development practice.
This course requires reliable, consistent access to a desktop or laptop with at least 8GB of RAM and at least 250 GB of disk space. Information on
student numbers, student grades, and submitted work will be stored in file systems and computers under the physical control of UVic.
Topics
The topics covered by this course will include:
Linux command-line basics with Bash
Linux shell scripts
Git version control system
Jupyter Notebooks
C programming language
Dynamic data structures in C
Python 3 programming language and libraries
Generative AI
Agentic AI
Libraries and frameworks for software development
Multi-version software development
Build tools
Incremental software development and testing
Software evolution and the software life cycle
Textbooks
This course has no required text. All resources required for this course will be posted on the Brightspace course website.
Course Objectives and Learning Outcomes
Students successfully completing SENG 265 will be able to:
Describe basic software-engineering concepts
Construct solutions for problems using the programming language C
Use scripting languages, libraries and frameworks to improve software productivity.
Employ the bash-shell and the Linux operating system in the work of developing software
Construct solutions for problems using the programming language Python 3
Learn incremental software development techniques
Learn object-oriented programming using Python 3
Learn Python 3 decorators
Generate C and Python code using generative AI
Organize development work using software-configuration management tools such as git and make
Explain the purpose of a software-development process
Investigate the dynamic behavior of C programs
Identify and outline the test cases needed to give confidence in the correctness of a software-development artifact
Labs
There will be 9 (nine) labs. Attending labs is mandatory.
We encourage you to augment your learning with external resources (e.g., textbooks, educational Websites, forums, etc.). However, you can use
these resources only for learning about the problem high-level solution strategies. You must develop your concrete solutions independently.
The use of an editor or tutor, either paid or unpaid, to correct or augment your work is strictly prohibited.
Course Materials on Brightspace
Lecture notes, Lab notes, quiz and assignment resources will be available through Brightspace and in the UVic Faculty of Engineering and Computer
Science software development environment for SENG 265.
Assignments
There will be 5 (five) programming assignments.
This schedule is subject to change. Please consult the course webpage for accurate due dates.
You should start assignments early enough to allow time to seek help if you encounter difficulties.
Students are encouraged to discuss assignment problems with each other and form study groups. However, final assignment submissions must be
generated independently, and you will only receive credit for your own work. We encourage you to augment your learning with external resources
(e.g., textbooks, educational websites, forums, etc.). However, you can use these resources only for learning about the problem high-level solution
strategies. You must develop your concrete solution independently. On some assignments, however, you may be permitted to use material from
other sources with proper attribution. Submitting the work of others without proper acknowledgement will be considered a serious academic
offense and may result in failure of the course.
The use of an editor or tutor, either paid or unpaid, to correct or augment your work is strictly prohibited.
Please consult the instructor if you are unsure whether or not you are following these guidelines when working on an assignment.
Term Portfolio Project
Term Portfolio Project
There will be a Term Portfolio project in the form of a Jupyter notebook. This Jupyter notebook will document the learning outcomes of this course,
especially the different software engineering methods and tools. This portfolio could be used for future co-op and job applications.
The Term Portfolio project consists of two parts as follows:
Exams & Quizzes
There will be three quizzes on Brightspace and a final exam during the University-scheduled final exam period. Each of the three quizzes will be
administered using Brightspace. The final exam is an in-person, closed-book, no phones, no watches, no calculators, no gadgets, one
formula sheet (front and back) exam. Attending the final exam in person is required to pass the course.
Missed exams:
Normally, a missed quiz will be given a zero mark.
Academic concession for a missed quiz is granted in extenuating circumstances (i.e., illness) only if the following is provided to the course
instructor:
Notification by e-mail from your uvic.ca e-mail account sent to the instructor's uvic.ca e-mail account before the date/time of
the exam.
Some form of documentation or concrete explanation to support the extenuating circumstances.
For courses with final exams, students are strongly advised not to make final plans for travel or employment during the exam period, as special
arrangements will not be made for examinations that may conflict with such plans.
In the event that you cannot write the final exam due to unexpected and unavoidable circumstances or conflicting responsibilities (as described here
- https://www.uvic.ca/students/academics/academic-concessions-accommodations/request-for-academic-concession/index.php) then you must
submit a request for a deferral ( https://www.uvic.ca/students/academics/academic-concessions-accommodations/request-for-academicconcession/
index.php#ipn-request-a-deferral) to Student Support Services after the final grades have been submitted.
Lecture & Lab Participation
This course will be delivered in person. Attendance and participation in the lectures and the labs are mandatory. Therefore, students are expected to
be physically present in the lecture room and in the lab room of their registered lab.
Lab attendance is monitored and is worth 6%.
Lecture attendance is monitored and is worth 6%.
All students are expected to fully engage and participate in the lectures and labs of this course.
Grading
The coursework consists of six major components: Assignments, Final Exam, Quizzes, Lab Attendance, Lecture Attendance, and the Term Portfolio
Projects (Part 1 & Part 2)..
In order to pass the course, students must
obtain a passing grade on the weighted average of the five assignments,
obtain a passing grade on the weighted average of the three quizzes and the final exam.
obtain a passing grade on the weighted average of the two term-portfolio-project submissions, and
complete the final exam.
Of these course requirements, the assignment requirement and the final exam requirement are the most challenging to satisfy.
The marks for lab and lecture attendance are based on in-person attendance, engagement, and participation.
Students are strongly advised not to make final plans for travel or employment during the exam period, as special arrangements will not be made for
examinations that may conflict with these plans.
Term Schedule
The term schedule will be available on Brightspace, with lecture topics, proposed readings and assignments' due dates. The schedule is subject to
changes during the term.
Posting of Grades
Typically marks for assignments, examinations, and provisional final grades are made available through a Learning Management System (LMS) like
Brightspace, where each student will be able to view only their own grades. Sometimes numerical marks/grades may be posted publicly to the entire
class. In that case, full student numbers or names will not be included with the posted information.
Csc Student Groups
The Engineering & Computer Science Students' Society (ECSS) serves all students registered in an Engineering and Computer Science degree
program, including Software Engineering (BSEng). For information on ECSS activities, events and services navigate to
https://sites.google.com/view/uvic-ecss/.
Course Policies And Guidelines
Late Assignments: No late assignments will be accepted unless prior arrangements have been made with the instructor at least 48 hours before
the assignment due date.
Coursework Mark Appeals: Appeals of marks for coursework will only be considered if received within 7 days of the mark being posted.
Attendance: We expect students attend all lectures and labs. It is entirely the students' responsibility to recover any information or announcements
presented in lectures from which they were absent.
Electronic devices in labs and lectures: No unauthorized audio or video recording of lectures is permitted.
Electronic devices in midterms and exams: Calculators are only permitted for examinations and tests if explicitly authorized and the type of
calculator permitted may be restricted. No other electronic devices (e.g. cell phones, pagers, PDA, etc.) may be used during examinations or tests
unless explicitly authorized.
Plagiarism: Submitted work may be checked using plagiarism detection software. Cheating, plagiarism and other forms of academic fraud are taken
very seriously by both the University and the Department. You should consult the link given below for the UVic policy on academic integrity. Note that
the university policy includes the statement that "A largely or fully plagiarized assignment should result in a grade of F for the course."
The Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Standards for Professional Behaviour are at https://www.uvic.ca/ecs/_assets/docs/studentforms/
professional-behaviour.pdf
U.Vic guidelines and policy concerning fraud and academic integrity are at http://web.uvic.ca/calendar/undergrad/info/regulations/academicintegrity.
html
U. Vic Privacy Policy: If any student has concerns about their private information being stored or accessed outside of Canada, they are required to
inform the course instructor about their concerns before the end of second week of classes.
Grading System
The University of Victoria follows a percentage grading system in which the instructor will submit grades in percentages. The University will use the
following Senate approved standardized grading scale to assign letter grades. Both the percentage mark and the letter grade will be recorded on the
academic record and transcripts.
F D C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+
0-49 50-59 60-64 65-69 70-72 73-76 77-79 80-84 85-89 90-100
Grades Description
A+, A,
AExceptional,
outstanding or excellent performance. Normally achieved by a minority of students. These grades indicate a student who is
self-initiating, exceeds expectation and has an insightful grasp of the subject matter.
B+, B,
BVery
good, good or solid performance. Normally achieved by the largest number of students. These grades indicate a good grasp of the
subject matter or excellent grasp in one area balanced with satisfactory grasp in the other areas.
C+, C Satisfactory, or minimally satisfactory. These grades indicate a satisfactory performance and knowledge of the subject matter.
D Marginal Performance. A student receiving this grade demonstrated a superficial grasp of the subject matter.
F Unsatisfactory performance. Wrote final examination and completed course requirements; no supplemental.
Student Experience of Learning (SEL)
I value your feedback on this course. Towards the end of term you will have the opportunity to complete a confidential Student Experience of Learning
(SEL) survey regarding your learning experience. The survey is vital to providing feedback to me regarding the course and my teaching, as well as to
help the department improve the overall program for students in the future. When it is time for you to complete the survey, you will receive an email
inviting you to do so. If you do not receive an email invitation, you can go directly to the SEL site
You will need to use your UVic NetLink ID to access the survey, which can be done on your laptop, tablet or mobile device. I will remind you closer to
the time, but please be thinking about this important activity, especially the following three questions, during the course.
What strengths did your instructor demonstrate that helped you learn in this course?
Please provide specific suggestions as to how the instructor could have helped you learn more effectively.
Please provide specific suggestions as to how this course could be improved.
Equality
This course aims to provide equal opportunities and access for all students to enjoy the benefits and privileges of the class and its curriculum and to
meet the syllabus requirements. Reasonable and appropriate accommodation will be made available to students with documented disabilities (physical,
mental, learning) in order to give them the opportunity to successfully meet the essential requirements of the course. The accommodation will not alter
academic standards or learning outcomes, although the student may be allowed to demonstrate knowledge and skills in a different way. It is not
necessary for you to reveal your disability and/or confidential medical information to the course instructor. If you believe that you may require
accommodation, the course instructor can provide you with information about confidential resources on campus that can assist you in arranging for
appropriate accommodation. Alternatively, you may want to contact the Centre for Accessible Learning located in the Campus Services Building.
The University of Victoria is committed to promoting, providing, and protecting a positive, and supportive and safe learning and working environment for
all its members.
Resources for students
a. UVicLearn is the primary learning resource for students that offers many learning workshops and resources to help students with academics and
learning strategies.
b. Library resources
c. Indigenous Student Services (ISS)
d. Academic Skills Centre (ASC)
e. Math & Stats Assistance Centre (MSAC)
f. Learning Assistance Program (LAP)
g. Community-Engaged Learning (CEL)
h. Learning in Motion - Co-op and Career Portal
i. Academic concession
j. Academic accommodation
k. Academic accommodation & access for students with disabilities
l. Student groups and resources
m. Student wellness
n. Ombudsperson
University statements and policies
a. University Calendar - Information for all students
b. Accommodation of Religious Observance
c. Student Conduct
d. Non-academic Student Misconduct
e. Academic Accommodations and Accessibility
f. Diversity / EDI – VPAC commitment
g. Sexualized Violence Prevention and Response
h. Discrimination and Harassment
Copyright Statement
All course content and materials are made available by instructors for educational purposes and for the exclusive use of students registered in their
class. The material is protected under copyright law, even if not marked with a ©. Any further use or distribution of materials to others requires the
written permission of the instructor, except under fair dealing or another exception in the Copyright Act. Violations may result in disciplinary action under
the Resolution of Non-Academic Misconduct Allegations policy (AC1300).